Well today I'd like to work on the ear.
It's I think the shape is pretty good but I'd like to get a little more detail around the edges of the
ear and on the insides.
So I've gone out and found a couple of images on Google Images one of a bat ear and one of obviously
a human ear for reference just to have up to look at.
While I do this I'm going to switch to sculpt mode here and I'm going to hover over the ear and press
alt f just to center the ear up in my view.
And now when I tumble around it's going to tumble around that part of the model and also going to press
the End key to bring up the properties panel and turn on the mat cap again.
I kind of like this particular shading when I'm sculpting so I'll then hit the End key to close that
up and I just want to cut in here a little bit more and to define the edges a little bit better.
So I'm going to hit the F key to reduce the brush size and I'll press shift F to reduce the strength
a bit.
And let's give this a try.
So I'm going to press the control key and I'm just going to sculpt and push in just a bit to kind of
make that indentation a little bit more defined.
And appear a bit something like this.
And then I'm also going to come in here and cut in just a bit in here like there's an indentation in
there.
Now I'd like to have a little kind of a notch coming out here kind of like this piece on our ear or
maybe this piece on the bat ear.
So I don't increase the strength just a bit here and let me try it right in here.
You know just to get that out there like that or maybe use the grab brush to take that and move it back
a bit.
It's
something like that and maybe drag it out just a bit more like that.
So it just takes a little bit of time a little bit of patience to build something like this up.
And the reference images are absolutely essential for something like this even though it's a fantasy
character you still need to be able to ground it in reality and that's what the reference images can
do for you.
And I'm going to try and bring a ridge like this down into the ear see if that'll work.
I'm not sure if that will work with this particular kind of character but why not give it a try.
And I like what's going on here.
But I think it needs to be a little bit thicker so I'll work on bringing this out a little bit more.
And then maybe smoothing that back I think maybe I'll try and get a little bit more of an ear lobe right
here like this.
Maybe I'll take that grab tool and see if I can just pull this down just a little bit.
Kind of hint at an ear lobe here.
Maybe pull this part down just a hair as well.
And I've got a problem with the math here and I'm not going to work too hard at fixing that because
ultimately this will be baked into a normal map.
All this sculped detail will be baked into a normal map which will be applied to the low poly model.
So for a glitch or a problem like this I can always just paint that out in the normal map.
So I'm not going to get too upset about this and try and smooth that out.
That sometimes happens and since we're going to be using a normal map anyway I can just fix it then.
All right so let me do just a couple more things here.
But I think this is generally the kind of look I want here.
I'd like to get these bulging out just a little bit better here.
This area like so and then smooth it back a bit.
So it kind of is in line with the side of the head there.
And then what I'd like to do too is come in and tighten up some of these edges.
So I've got the basic shape down.
I think what I'll do is come in and tighten some of the edges around here.
So if I come over to the pinched tool I can let's see what happens if I come in here and just sculped
along this edge here see if I can tighten that up just a bit and maybe down here as well.
Something like that.
Now I come over here to the crease tool and I can maybe increase the amount of definition in this crease
here and maybe also here
see how that looks.
Yeah.
So something like that.
So it just helps it define that area a little bit better maybe even come in here with the crease tool
like that
yeah.
All right.
So I think we're getting there I think there's more that I can do.
I'm not real pleased with this area right in here maybe I'll work more on that.
But generally speaking you get the idea you can go in and begin sculpting and getting more detail in
the ears like that.
Well believe it or not we're getting close to the end in fact I think what I'm going to do.
Let me go back here and bring everything back.
So I think what I'm going to do from here is do some cleanup work try and finalize it.
But then I think in the next videos what I'd like to do is begin on a tweet apologizing the character
you can see here that up at the top that we were over six and a half million tries.
That's just far too much for a game engine for any game engine.
So we'll need to read to apologize this to create a low polygon version of it that we can then take
into unity.
So we'll see how many tries we can get it down to as we read apologize.
So stay tuned for that coming up soon.
A series of videos on Reid apologizing to create a low poly mesh.